
PlayStation on FPGA feat. Analogue Pocket


[ CAUTION, the screen flickering, protect your eyes. ]

This is a port of the basic functions of the first PlayStation to Analogue Pocket.
Sound and movie functions have been left out to fit in Pocket's FPGA.
The FPS is low because the main memory and VRAM are shared.


* Using core.

1. Put the "Assets", "Cores" and "Platforms" in the dist on the SD card.

2. Put the PlayStation SCPH5500 BIOS file on the Assets/playstation/common.
   The file name is "scph5500.bin". Other versions of BIOS have not been tested.

3. Put the .bin or .img created from the PlayStation-ROM with image creation software 
   (e.g. ImgBurn) in the Assets/playstation/common.

   Assets
      playstation
         common
            rom.bin (get it from the game CD)
            scph5500.bin (replace dummy)
   Cores
      pgate1.PlayStation
         bitstream.rbf_r
         *.json
   Platforms
      _images
         playstation.bin
      playstation.json

4. OK. Insert the SD card into the Pocket, turn it on, and select PlayStation core from openFPGA.

5. There are three choices from the file browser.

   If you choose rom.bin(.img), the game will launch via the PS logo (if you are lucky).

   If you choose scph5500.bin, the PlayStation main menu will appear.

   If you choose a PS-X EXE format demo program such as PSXNICCC.exe, it will run without going through the PS logo.

6. Have fun until your Pocket's battery runs out.

If it works happily, please take a video of it and upload it to Twitter. I will be delighted.
/* Select button? to enter disable texture cache mode. */


* What to do when it doesn't work.

Error in framework File ID [32] size bad.
  -> The file size of BIOS must be 524,288 bytes.

Immediately after the first black screen, red lines appear on all four sides.
  -> It may not be a valid BIOS file. Please check the checksum.

Cannot proceed after PS logo is displayed, red lines appear on all four sides.
  -> This software is not yet supported. Sorry.

The game won't start after the PS logo.
  -> The movie is probably being processed, so hit the Start button repeatedly after the PS logo to skip the movie. If you time it right, you might be able to skip the movie.
     If it still doesn't start, it's still not supported.

During play, red or white line appeared on all four sides and the game stopped.
  -> PlayStatoin Core has issued a HALT code. Insufficient functionality. Sorry.
     Red lines : CPU runaway for unknown reasons.
     White lines : Some feature implementation is missing.


2023/11/28 pgate1
